Well done. You've removed bias from your model.
That is a huge step.
But now, how certain are you that your model is performing well?
If I ask you to say you're certain or uncertain,
is that good enough?
Are you certain of your uncertainty?
After tackling this section like a linebacker,
you'll know how uncertain your model is performing.
Its time to clear up your uncertainty about uncertainty estimation.
So you might wonder why we are covering uncertainty estimation.
Do models cover uncertainty with just the raw probabilities of the prediction outputs?
No, this is unfortunately not the case.
In a typical classification problem,
it provides predictions with relative weightings across
the prediction classes and are different than the confidence in a given prediction.
Let's think about it this way.
Using a local weather forecasts on your local news,
which of these would be most useful information to the population?
What if I were only told,
yes, it will rain tomorrow?
Would that be useful?
Maybe, or instead, we get a percent of chance like this.
There is a 55 percent chance of raining tomorrow.
For the weather forecast,
this is useful because we can interpret that to mean it might rain tomorrow,
but the uncertainty of that is high.
Here's another example.
Again, yes, it will rain tomorrow.
But this time, there's an 80 percent chance of rain.
The model is much more certain it will rain tomorrow.
I don't know about you, but I'd bring an umbrella tomorrow.
Lastly, here's another example.
No, it will not rain tomorrow.
This event gets paired with an icon of clouds
and sun without the rain in the first example,
yet there's a 49 percent chance of rain.
Not only is the model uncertain,
but it ended up giving us a potentially false result.
Has it is likely to rain as no rain tomorrow.
In these examples, you can see that having the uncertainty estimation is
extremely useful if not required to really evaluate the results of the model.
Therefore, we should include them to be as clear
as possible about how our model was performing.
We'll look at more common example from health care in just a bit,
but first, let's do a very quick review of probabilistic programming.
So to address uncertainty estimation,
we use probabilistic programming.
In particular, we will create
Bayesian Neural Networks or the TensorFlow probability library.
The TensorFlow probability library combines
Bayesian probabilistic approaches with deep learning.
Since it's built on TensorFlow,
you can train on GPUs and even offers
options such as Markov Chain, Monte Carlo simulations.
So you might wonder why you use Bayesian Neural Networks in Bayesian probability.
By using statistical approaches can be very helpful for situations where you
can leverage deep domain knowledge and have small datasets.
Health care is in the industry where you might have small datasets on patient data
for a new drug or rare conditions that little data exists directly for.
Also health care is a field where you can leverage
deep domain knowledge for medical professionals in medical literature,
which can helps bias your model with pertinent domain knowledge.
In situations like this where you have a small number of examples,
deep domain knowledge and Bayesian approaches can help because
Frequentist approaches have greater variance and larger confidence intervals.
To better understand probabilistic programming,
I want to review the basic concept of
Bayesian probability in prior and posterior distributions.
A prior distribution you can think of as
a prior bias or information that you know beforehand about something.
This prior is especially important for fields like health care that are
heavily biased by prior demographic or patient history information.
Using this domain or demographic information can be extremely helpful,
it'll allow you to create unique models and features.
Then, as we know about Bayesian probability,
you must update the prior with new information and get
a posterior distribution that is based off of the new information in updating.
This is what we will do later,
we're building a prior and posterior layer for
deep learning model with TensorFlow probability,
which helps to abstract away some of the advanced mathematics involved.
So to better illustrate how Bayesian and
Frequentist statistics differ for the prediction output,
let's say we want to assess whether a drug will pass a Phase 3 clinical trial.
The Frequentist statistical response would be a yes or no response.
However, the Bayesian response would give a
yes and the certainty/confidence in that prediction.
This can be helpful when connecting to use with metrics like
the Brier score that can combine predictions from various models.